# Food Delivery Time Prediction

It is very important for food delivery company to get this right, as it has a big impact on consumer experience. Order lateness / underprediction of delivery time is of particular concern as past experiments suggest that underestimating delivery time is roughly twice as costly as overestimating it. Orders that are very early / late are also much worse than those that are only slightly early / late. In this project, I will build a model to predict the estimated time taken for a delivery.

The target of the project is predicting the total seconds value between ‘created_at’ and ‘actual_delivery_time’, which is also known as total delivery duration. In the following, the compelling insights and findings will be presented, and the results and error measurements from each model will be compared and displayed in the model session. Last, I will discuss the quality and reliability of the results. Conclusion and recommendations will be addressed, and I will also present areas that I could’ve improved in and how to predict future results.


## Conclusion and Recommendation
In conclusion, after trying the multiple machine learning models, the model still has some flaws that can be improved. In this project, I’m predicting the actual total delivery duration, which means from the time the order created to the time the customer received the order. If I have more information, so I could break down the delivery time process into different stages and predict them separately. Then, add those times together to get the total delivery time, so the performance of forecasting might be improved. For example, there are many factors that affect the pick-up time, such as no parking spot, or difficulty of access to the building. For those potential issues, we can build a separate model to predict only pick-up time. We can do the same thing for driving time and drop-off time as well. Moreover, zip code and address of destination can be also included in the dataset, which shows a clearer and specific location. Ideally, we could connect with Google Maps or Apple Maps to better understand and update the up-to-date traffic conditions in order to capture the accurate driving time. Last but not least, the weather and temperature will also affect the delivery time sometimes. It would be helpful if that information can be included.


